---
title: How to manage projects, tasks, people, and yourself using the Obsidian app with Francisco Bricio
collection:
  - "[[YouTube Videos]]"
  - "[[Works]]"
medium:
  - video
published: 2021-05-02T00:00:00
URLs:
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ehw3hUZNF1M
---

###### 1

If you're wondering how to manage projects, tasks, teams, and yourself prepare to receive great value from this presentation by Francisco. Francisco is a theoretical physicist by profession software developer by choice automotive referenced by luck, entrepreneur by conviction and music lover by passion. He's also a book predator by a pleasure and a writer by necessity in the following. Francisco showcases a project management workflow that is so practical. Simple and effective as you'll soon. See Francisco didn't start managing projects yesterday, even though he's a theoretical physicist, he doesn't have a theoretical productivity system. He has a battle tested and proven system that's as effective as it is elegant. Let's view Francisco's process. Now, first I need to say that I'm a big piece. I think not as organized as what I have seen so far. I'm a very, very big mess, but in some points that has been not negative part of my life on the other side has been very, been very positive because I think I'm very creative. And I say all these just because we are among peers. Uh, usually don't say these kinds of things. However, as I said, I mean, I get

###### 2

distracted very, very, very easily. So that's why my home note, doesn't say home, it's a focus because that's kind of a reminder to me that I just need to focus, focus, focus. So, uh, this is, this is my home note. My home note is a little bit different basically, as you see my screen in the left is quite simple. I pretty much have everything on there. Reference all the files is like a big ball of, uh, of, uh, documents, uh, right there. So I only have these three documents on my left focus, command. And, and to do that, I'm gonna explain a little bit later on the focus. This is just like, uh, my message, you know, all my ideas. I call him a command N uh, as a reference of the, uh, a new document for, or a new anything, usually it's command. And so that's my code name for, uh, All my projects, but since I get distracted very, very easily, I always try to focus into some kind of guidelines. And I use the seven W's, uh, principal, uh, to do these, um, uh, where I have my, who, what, why, when,

###### 3

where whom, uh, try to, uh, Uh, see where I'm going. So basically these are the guidelines who define if I'm going to get in involved in a project, or if I'm just getting, going escape it or leverage to somebody else to do with, uh, for me the first one I as who I am. So I, I see here and I have, uh, documents for all my different roles in my life as a husband, father, but father, et cetera, et cetera. And then this is what do I want? And these one is, is important because. Uh, I, my, once I added my once as a tax. So, um, in order to do any project or any idea, I looked first, if those ideas aligned to my interests, otherwise they can be a distraction and that will make it less productive. So these are my interests. I'm interested in technology in nature and business in music and literature. On personal growth and in these things in particular, in technology, just computers, software, big data technology, et cetera, et cetera. So these are, these are the tasks that I'm using for this, and I'm using the tide Wrangler

###### 4

plugin, which is really nice. So if you see all of them, start with an I. So that's the, I stands for interest. Uh, so they are all nested here. I'm on my tax here on, uh, on, uh, right here. So everything is, is, um, . Um, but those, those are my ones. And then when, when I want, I'm going to do all these things. So I calibrate three rituals and daily rituals on when I'm going to the oldies do on all my personal stuff and give time to do everything that I have to do. So I try to make myself, uh, more or less strict on that, that part. Then it comes the what and DC in particular, what are the things that I. Need to do consistently to get what I want. So what are my standards? What are my non negotiables I call what are the things that I'm going to do no matter what every day. Uh, so I can, I can get what I want and then this, uh, one-on-one, uh, it also applies to a tax because he's who I'm going to leverage. Of course, I, I will not be

###### 5

able to do all these things that I'm doing. If I didn't have the support of people. So on the, on the whom I have, uh, the people that I surround myself, that, that helped me, uh, on my first level, uh, to accomplish my thing. So these are the people that I, that I, that I, that were with me. And I have also at that time for these one P for Paris, a person, and the name of the, of the, of the person that, that helps me on, on each of these. These things. So that means that every project will have to have a line. I want somebody that is going to help me to do all these. And finally I have the where and where I'm going to all these, do all these things. And this also applies to what are the tools that I'm going to use? I, I love technology, so I get distracted by new tools, new things. So, uh, incorporating a new tool is just a learning process. So I try to avoid that unless it's something. So cool as obsidian, but I try to minimize myself the number of tools

###### 6

that I'm using. So I'm not just jumping around in different tools, uh, all that all the time. And then finally this just personnel stuff. I just thank everybody that has scaled me on every theme. Everyone I'm grateful for. Yes. As a reminder, I also have a section for my principles that I, I like to review, uh, every, every week, uh, where I have my motto on the things that, that I, I do believe. And, uh, from time to time discuss being, growing, and changing, but these are more or less. Principles of life. So having said that the main thing is go to my command and which is pretty much the, the, the thing that I see almost every day. And here are all my ongoing projects right now. Divided by the different kinds of businesses. So these are all my business projects and on my personal appointments that I'm going on right now. And as you see, for example, if I just move around here on each of these projects, the first thing that appears is the next step. The only way to accomplish this is that every project every week moves. It doesn't matter

###### 7

if it's just one thing, one phone call, one email, but everything has every project. I mean, what we've I need to do one, at least one thing per week, just to keep them going. So what I'm looking is for progress, not perfection. So if I go, for example, to these one Cola authentic com, this is the name of the project. The first thing on the top is the next step, which I talked with the next, and this is what, what is next for these, these, these one in particular, then it comes to my why, why I'm doing this? I mean, why is this important for me? And sometime it's good for me to read why, why I wanted to do this? Why this is important for me. Danny. I have a list of contacts that are involved in, in, in this, uh, project. There are the next tasks I have to do. These are not all the tasks I'm going to show you where I have all my, the, my big list of task. Uh, these are the ones that are next online, just so I don't get overwhelmed by that whole bunch of things

###### 8

to do. We started the next ones that I need to work on. Then, uh, over, and these are things that is important for me to remember, but I want them to get, uh, buried under layers and layers of, to do, to do, to do things, to do. And, um, so these, these what I call the, the, the oven, uh, these, these are things that are cooking and then I have my links and on here on the links and using the URL capacity of, of, of obsidian, I get some. Quite nice things, for example, uh, right now I'm, I'm, I'm looking at authentic com as a project. And if I click here on, on email messages, you will open my Gmail and you will open immediately with a search for authentic com. So I get all the email messages for this particular product, right, right there in one, one shot with one click. The only other thing that I, uh, uh, I have, these is older, which is a tool that I use a lot too, uh, do research on companies. This tool keeps me informed of what's going on with, with the different companies I'm

###### 9

involved with. And same thing. If I click here on older, I get information about this company, how the company's doing. If there are any news about this individual or company that I'm working on, then, uh, there's a section. Um, for, uh, um, uh, for all the information that I've been gathering in the time. And then, um, uh, here on the, on the, on the, uh, journal, uh, what I have is, is what, what's everything that I've been doing with these, with this account in particular, then I have my metadata and if this is aligned with some of my, uh, Principles, as I said, if it's not aligned with at least one of these things, I

###### 10

don't, I don't get involved too much into, into this. Uh, as you see, for example, the next step for this one is, uh, precisely today. So if I, if I, um, go to, um, To today's activity. Uh, then I get, uh, today and I have my support on phase for the day. So these are different things I need to do today. There are more and more important for me and all my next steps using the search functionality, CDN, I, it pulls from the different projects. What are the next steps for any of these projects? If there's something for, so for authentic, I have these things to do today. Um, for this, uh, of course LinkedIn, you're thinking these, my presentation that I'm doing to you guys today, and then it goes on my agenda. What are the things that I have to do today? So I, I write the notes on, on every meeting that I have, my 10:00 AM, 11:00 AM, 14, et cetera, et cetera. And, um, And that's pretty much it, uh, just to finish. Uh, what I want to say is that, um, my, my initial bolt or my initial point

###### 11

of capture is not obsidian. Uh, what I use is, um, drafts. I use drops, uh, very, very much, but I have, uh, added some, um, uh, Functionality into drafts to either save ideas or things that I'm capturing on my mobile phone or my iPad or, or, or anything, uh, in obsidian or to create a to-do list. So for example, if I say buy milk, Um, and I click here on to do to obsidian then, uh, when I go back to the CDN here on like to do, here's what I have my master task list. I'm curious by milk at the very, very top. And, um, and I keep, um, um, Uh, these with another, uh, plugin who moves all my completed tasks to the very bottom of the, of the file. So everything, everything stays stays here. Um, so, um, Uh, I guess that's pretty much it. Uh, Nick. Well, yeah. Round of applause for Francisco. Woo. Uh, yeah, I think, I think there'll be a few questions. Uh, very, you know, a lot of different questions coming in. Um, just FYI, you know, Francisco is in cohort two, so he's had a little bit

###### 12

more time to, you know, fine tune bits of his personalized system, which we can definitely see. This was, um, quite inspiring and eye-opening in many ways. So, thank you. Okay. Well, one more time. Let's give Francisco that round of applause. That was really, really great. So, okay. Dean Francisco's process is greatly inspiring. He shows how to manage projects in a clear, deliberate, simple, and yet powerful way. This is the signal folks. It's not the noise. If you are sometimes feeling lost in the anxiety of what to focus on, or you often seem to lose steam on many of your goals, this is a way to successfully marry productivity, to linked based frameworks, to unlock a whole new way of managing your projects. Your teams and yeah, yourself as always, there are a lot more of these inspiring tours. I hope to showcase because they show how personal the process of thinking and managing knowledge can be. Hey, if you enjoyed this, like one of the comments below or write your own, and until next time stay connected.
