---
title: Obsidian Canvas
collection:
  - "[[YouTube Videos]]"
  - "[[Works]]"
medium:
  - video
published: 2022-12-08T00:00:00
URLs:
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLBd_ADeKIw
---

###### 1

I was lost but now I'm found I was lost I was lost but now I'm found but now I'm found found out how do I get unstuck? How do I get out? I don't know. I just gave up. It wasn't going well I guess I lost momentum life happened I lost my train of thought I lost the spark I was overwhelmed. Life happens. Map my way out. They who make a better map, make a better mark, they who make a better map, make a better better mark. I was lost. But now I'm found I am found. I'm found I found my way. Except this wasn't about Amazing Grace. It was about having an amazing space and amazing space to get unstuck. When you're overwhelmed. What is your amazing space? I know you have one. Is it the park? Is it walking outside the coffee shop? The dinner table, pen and paper? Where do you go to get your thoughts back on track? For me. It's often in app like Obsidian. But what if you want to spatially map your thoughts on a virtual whiteboard? You can't do that in obsidian, can you? Well, now you

###### 2

can. Introducing canvas. But first. Hi, I'm Nick Milo, and I'm here to help you do your best thinking more often. Now, why is that important? So you can make meaningful stuff that you're actually proud to put your name on. So what's stopping you? Well, life, it's busy, it's full of distractions. One second, you know clearly what you have to do the next second, you're on YouTube, wondering how you even got there. And it's okay if this happens once or twice a day. But what happens when it's once or twice an hour, every hour of the day, you lose your way you lose your orientation, your bearings, your clarity of understanding which way is up. That's what we call the mental squeeze point. And it can happen when you least expect it. So what do you do when it happens? Do you give up and quit your big thing, that effort that you really care about? Or do you find a way to reorient yourself regather your thoughts and rebuild your momentum. That's the power of a map. When you hit a mental squeeze point. One of the best reflexes that you can train yourself in

###### 3

is to make a map you can make a map with pen and paper you can make a map with software like obsidian. And as of this week, you have an entirely new way to do that within obsidian. Introducing canvas, map your thoughts and rebuild your thinking momentum. By the end of this video, you will not only know the basics of obsidian Canvas, you will know how to powerfully use it, including to use the secret maneuvers that make it effortless, along with my lingering questions, and we're going to finish it with my verdict and takeaways on this exciting thinking tool. Are you ready? Let's dive in. Okay, here we go. We are in. As you can

###### 4

see on my screen, we've done the intro. Now we're into the basics. Let me drill this down. And let's walk through the first thing we need to do is get Canvas set up. First thing we want to do is go hover over here and click on settings. And then we're going to go to about and check this out. You need to make sure you're at least at version 1.10. Now to get this insider build. If you're watching this fresh off the press, go ahead and toggle receive insider builds, then check for updates, update, quit reopen obsidian, you'll be good to go. So then what happens? Well, now you can hit the command palette. Remember from

###### 5

previous videos, this is command p, this is a really important hotkey you can see at the bottom of my screen, when I hit Command P, that's what I'm hitting. If you're on a Windows, it's going to be Ctrl P, I'll do my best to say command and control. But just know if I'm saying command that's for Mac, and the equivalent is Ctrl on Windows. So now I'm just going to start I don't know what I'm looking for. I'm just gonna start typing canvas. Oh, there it is create a new canvas. Awesome. So let's create a new canvas. And now we see the symbol here. And we can call this Test Canvas Live. That's a good enough name. And now we'll look through all these different buttons. So eventually, this Test Canvas is going to start to look closer to this final product. So really fast, I just want to show you all the stuff that we'll be going through. So it's very exciting. Let's go a little bit deeper. So we got Canvas set up, we created a new canvas. Now I'm going to go back to Settings one more time, because you might forget

###### 6

to hit Command P you might forget to hit or like to start typing Canvas. So let's give it a hotkey of your choice. So for that we're going to go to Settings hotkeys over here. Now start typing canvas and if you've upgraded if You have access to Canvas. Now, you can give it a hotkey, I hold down three modifiers. And I hit and so you'll see that show up. If I do that now. And boom, we have a new canvas, but I don't really want this one. So I'll just delete that one later. Here we are. So now what's next, let's talk about moving around the canvas. And for that, I'll go to this final example here. So the first thing I want you to know, and these are some really nice maneuvers to know is just being able to zoom in and out. So to do that hold down Command or Ctrl on Windows. And then you can just zoom in and out. It's kind of interesting, once you zoom out a little bit, images go away. And we can still just see the colors and the overall shape. So if I zoom back

###### 7

in, I can start to see things. So that's good to know. Now the other movements that you'll want to be aware of is just how to even create something new. So let's do this in the Test Canvas, what I want you to notice is that there are buttons on the upper right, and there are buttons at the bottom left. So let's hit this, which is currently called drag to add card, it might change. So I'm just going to do that. And it creates a card on this canvas. So I'll say this is a card, and now it exists. So what you'll notice that the four corners are a little pop ups. So if I just click on it, nothing happens. But if I click, hold, and drag, it will create a new card. This too, is a card. Okay, so we've just created a connection on this canvas. We'll talk about the functionality that currently exists later, and the functionality that might exist in the future. And we'll cover that before this video is over. Something else you can do is add media. So here's one, let's just add my friend, me Hi, Chick sent

###### 8

me Hi, this is an image that's already in my vault. So you can see how quickly I can start using images already existing here. Guess what, on Windows in File Explorer, on Mac, and finder, open it up, find an image, you can literally drag and drop it onto this canvas, boom, now it's part of your obsidian vault. And you can start connecting with it. The last one over here is for notes. These are existing notes in your idea verse in your ecosystem of knowledge. So let's go ahead and click on that. And let's add something about sharing. How about sharing offers unfair advantages. So this is a note, it's over here in one of these folders, and I've just added it onto the canvas. So now you can start thinking about it and connecting it making sense of it. Maybe that leads to some sort of output. Maybe it's just helpful for me to make a decision, who knows exactly. But now we have a pre existing note that is part of this. So we have a card, a card and a note. Now let's see what we should do next, making things happen in

###### 9

the canvas. So just looking at this, we also have the sidebar over here. Now you can zoom in, you can zoom out, you can zoom to fit. So imagine I'm over here, I can hit zoom to fit, and it will fit everything on here. Let's see what that looks like in a very mature Canvas. So if I hit zoom to fit, it'll show me everything. So we're about to get into some more advanced maneuvers. But first, I want you to know that zoom to fit is also a hotkey shift one. So I could be anywhere. If I just hit shift one, it'll show me everything. Now it gets better than that though, because one that you'll find really powerful after a while is shift two, which is zoom to selection, it is extremely snappy and delightful. Let me show you what that looks like. So if I click on this over here, if I hit Shift to boom, it shifts over here. If I go, I can shift to over here questions and notables. It'll shift over here. very snappy, guess what you can do more than one note at a time. So if I

###### 10

want to show you the settings right now, like I do, I could just kind of scroll and that works for me. But every now and then I might just want to make sure I see it nice and centered. So that's what I just did there. With those selected, I can go ahead and hit Shift to and it takes me right there. Something else to know is that there's some Grid Snapping going on. So you can see that as I move this around, I am getting some helpful guidance to snap these into helpful alignments. Something else to be aware of. And this works on a lot of different tools that if I hold shift while I start dragging, so let's try that one more time by hold Shift while I start dragging. It's going to keep me on the x plane. Or if I'm right in the middle of keep me on the y plane. So that's a way to make sure that you're only moving in one direction. And I can hit undo and that will move me Back. A couple of hotkey notes that I find interesting is that Canvas doesn't have the global

###### 11

Undo and Redo because that's working at a note level. So that's why we have to use these buttons to undo and redo things. Okay, it's time for the next section. And we're jumping into secret maneuvers, this is what I'm most excited to show you. Because with any new tool, if you know just the basic secret maneuvers that no one really talks about, it unlocks the tool for you. And all of a sudden, you say to yourself, wow, now I know how to use a hammer. Now I know how to use a Phillips screwdriver. In this case, let's talk about zooming in and out, scrolling, horizontally duplicating and just basically moving around. Let's go back to this big canvas. How do I see everything again? You tell me? Oh, that's right. It's shift. What is it shift one? Okay, now we see everything. I need to zoom in a little bit, though. So how am I doing this? Well, let's go to secret maneuvers and find out. These are the secret maneuvers to supercharge your canvass experience, the first one to know is being able to zoom in and out. So on Mac, I'm going to

###### 12

hold command down and then use the mouse scroll wheel to scroll around. I use this all the time, this is where it's at you combine this with the next one, scroll horizontally, hold down Shift and then scroll with the scroll wheel that's going to move you left and right. Okay, this works in Google Sheets, this works on a lot of different apps. These are the secret maneuvers that work in all sorts of universal applications. And if you get comfortable with them, when you try out something new, you'll be surprised to recognize that if it's well designed, you can probably do these things already. And so what you learn here can benefit you in countless situations yet to occur. So now let's just combine these two and see how that feels. This is how I always navigate, I'm always thinking about having a hand on a thumb on the command control. And I'm zooming this way. And then if I want to move over to the right, I hold down shift. And then I use that scroll wheel and then I shift over this way. I go over here, I zoom in. I zoom in over

###### 13

here. I scroll, zoom in and out. Beautiful stuff. Okay. Now, depending on how you use things, you can move around a different way you could hold down space, you can see I have space held down right now that I can click and drag. So that's another way to move around. It's worth knowing. And one that was so beautiful when I found out that obsidian that developers already have this in in Canvas right now is duplicate. So let's say I really like how this is designed. If you hold down Option, Alt on Windows option, then click and drag, and boom, you have a duplicate. I use this all the time. So these are the secret maneuvers

###### 14

that will really unlock this application for you. So just so you know, we've currently covered the settings, which are a lot of the basics, and we've covered the secret maneuvers. So what's next? Hey, if you're excited about obsidian canvas, let me know by hitting the like button. And even better, give me a comment. Let me know how you plan to use it. Okay, next up is the meat and potatoes. This is the stuff that I think you'll really enjoy the power moves using internal images, external images, cards, URLs of any type. Those are links, anything that has a link, let's dive in. Let's go back to this canvas over here. So now where are we

###### 15

going? Let's check out using cards. So remember, this little button over here creates cards. Once you have it created, it works just like you'd expect the files to work. If you want to make something bold, you can go ahead and hit Command B, just like in Microsoft Word. It'll give you some Markdown and then you can say this is bold. And then go on and say this is important because and who knows. Now you can do a quick resize, and then put that wherever let's say I want to link here, what am I? What am I going to do? I'm going to click and drag to the new card and it's connected. And what if I want to click this card connected to that card? And now we have some magical things happening. So snappy, I can just move this thing around. Beautiful. What if I want to duplicate it? What do I hold down on a Mac, I hold down Option and I duplicate on Windows, it's alt. I will delete that for now. Let's check this out. So this is a card. A card isn't a note. That means it's not its own

###### 16

file. That means it only exists in this canvas. That's worth noting and we'll talk more about this near the very end. One thing I want you to know is that you can convert this to a file, which means it's a note then you can convert it to a note. So I really don't want To do this, but let's just see what happens here. So I'll say using cards in obsidian canvas, okay, and then I'll hit Done. Now look at that. Now it's a new note, it's a new note, it's a file on my computer, I can find this file, I can do anything with it, because now it's a markdown file. So let's move on though. You can upgrade a card to a note, just like you saw. So I'm one step ahead of myself, Hey, we can place existing images like you saw in the Test Canvas over here. What else can we do? Well, after I placed that image, I said, Let's that reminds me of flow. You know, what else does Mihai remind me of I have other notes on flow. So this is where you start brainstorming, you start making your

###### 17

map of content in this really fluid manner. So in this case, I'm going to hit Command O, which is going to show all my notes, you could also click this button over here, just remember that so you can click that button. And then I'm going to hit flow, I got other things on flow, so why not the flow map, and I have this nice little flow map in here. And I don't want it to be that big. So I'll just put it over here. And then again, I'll just connect me hi to that. Kind of cool, right? It makes sense. It's so nice to see this. Now, we can also have external images. So I

###### 18

placed a new image. And I have one prepared for us right now. So there's something that I recently found from family members, grandma, Doris is cinnamon rolls. This is part of the recipe. This is what you can do with knowledge management, when you have an ecosystem where you can find those things that just fill your heart. So you can go ahead and throw in gram endorses some minerals. And here's part of the recipe, I have more for those who are interested. But this is part of the recipe. So it doesn't make sense in this canvas. But you can just see how it was just a file over here on my computer. And now it's over

###### 19

here in my canvas, I can think with it, I can connect it can make the magic happen. Now, let's go even further, let's talk about URLs and anything with the link. Now we're talking about other power moves, you can copy and paste URLs or anything. So let's say you use the application things over and things I have this note telling me to try out Canvas. So I can go over here and copy the link Did you know you could do this, you can copy the link, then just anywhere in this canvas, I'm just going to paste. And now I have the link here. I can connect it, which is just the same as this. So what do I do with this, it looks kind of strange, it doesn't matter. All I have to do is double click and then hold down COMMAND and click boom, opens up things. And you can do this with anything that has a link that means the Calendar app, anything online good example that are the release notes for this. I just found that online and I just grabbed the link from the internet dragged and dropped it right here.

###### 20

Images from the internet. This isn't that you can just add anything. Let me show you what I'm talking about. So let's open up Safari. And I did a search for IDEA verse and linking your thinking. I don't like the results. So I'll go to images. I do like this. Let me right click and open image and new tab. What if I could just drag and drop this onto the canvas? You can? There it is. There it is. And then of course you want to resize it. And pretty cool. So now I'll ship that over here. And that's also an image. So I'll just go and connect it. Very nice. Very nice to see that. Is there anything else? What about linking your thinking.com URL, check this out, click drag, drop. It's here. It's kind of cool is the actual website. I'm on this website looking at it. Pretty wild, pretty wild. I think you can zoom in, you can actually read this. I'm really blown away at how this sort of stuff works. So you can do a lot with these power moves. And that takes us to our next section as we start to

###### 21

wrap this up. Let's go into lingering questions. Let me pull this one down. These are a few that we're going to look at how big is the canvas? How do backlinks work? Is the canvas markdown, we know that markdown allows us to future proof our knowledge. So is the canvas helpful with future proofing? What is my current verdict on that? And then what happens to the cards that you just add to the canvas that are not their own files? Let's dive into each of those questions right now. And so if you go over here to the questions, this is that giant canvas, so you know what I'll do. I'll highlight everything I'll hit Shift to and now it's all right here is the canvas mark down no It's a format known as JSON. I'm not. This is where it's beyond me, it gets stored as a text node with a text field. So what happens to these cards that exist nowhere else? Well, they get stored as a text node with a text field. Okay, that was a repeat. But what does this mean? It means that it's not marked down. So the developers are

###### 22

people that I trust, and I know they're working on the best ways to improve what we're looking at. Can I say definitively that Canvas notes are future proofed? Hmm, not definitively, not today, not just yet. Give it one month, give it two months, three months? And I think the answer will become a yes. I don't know how they're going to do it. But I have confidence that they will. Next How big is the canvas. So this is something that I saw from them. But if you're familiar with tools like Microsoft OneNote, you'll love the canvas. And what I've noticed is as you put on more images, it seems to grow. So we can kind of test this out, just to kind of see what happens. I'm kind of curious myself. And now it's grown now has grown substantially. Wow. How can we zoom to fit everything? There's a magical hotkey. And it's also right here, shift one. Let's hit that. And it looks like there comes a point where it can't see all the stuff. So that's interesting, the stars to try to balance the canvas out. Again, I bet you that's fixed in a

###### 23

week or two, what else? Let's go back to this question section. Shift to and I'm back. Finally, backlinks. This is where people are the most concerned, especially the nerds, the technical people, the ones who really want to make sure that this checks off all the technical boxes. Currently, backlinks only work for the canvas itself. That means none of these notes, even though that looks like they have connections. Currently today, none of them have connections, this may change next week. None of these are actually links. There's no, this is just a card, it's not a note. And these are just cards. So there are no backlinks, the only backlink is between this note this canvas that we're looking at. And let's see, I can link this to this one over here, which I've done. So I've given a note at the top. And if I click on this, it opens back up to the canvas. So I've created that sort of back link. And we can I think we can see that. So in this canvas note, we can see that it is linked in my other note right here. So it's working at that highest

###### 24

of levels. Currently, the backlinks do not work within the Canvas itself, meaning that even for the notes that I've dropped in that I already have pre existing, this image is not backlinks to flow, or vice versa, or the flow map. This will change over time. It's just not there right now. So I kind of consider a much ado about nothing. We don't want to judge things too soon. And in fact, that leads me to a very important caveat message. Canvas just just came out to insiders, the majority of users, by my calculations, over 200,000 of you, you still don't have access as of this recording. That means that Canvas is raw, it's new, and that means it's absurd to harshly judge the work in progress. Can you imagine someone walking up behind Michelangelo as he's sculpting the David scoffing out loud and dismissing it as missing features? I don't see his abs are those really what you call eyeballs? Where's he even looking? Why are his hands so big? It's a bit absurd, isn't it? It's like harshly judging the rod dough for cinnamon rolls and declaring that you won't eat them before they even

###### 25

go into the oven. Over the last two and a half years. One thing is clear. Don't bet against the obsidian developers, they know what they're doing. Okay, time for the takeaways. We can throw them down here. But let's have more fun looking in the canvas itself. So if I zoom out, we're looking at the same mega map this mega Canvas are going down two takeaways. The first one is the canvas might remind you a little bit of a cool tool like the global graph and say what you will about the graph view. There are people who don't know how to use it and they assume that means it's unusable. But obsidian Canvas really gets the chef's kiss. It's just really amazing. And why it's so amazing is because it allows us to use our spatial abilities. We as humans, we just get we just get spayed. as we navigate this way naturally, and so the Canvas allows us to truly understand and utilize maps of content, which this truly is here. And as a reminder, what a map of content is, it is an M O see a cluster of information. And it maps things

###### 26

in context with other things. Practically, you can use emojis for three big things, gather, develop, navigate ideas, you can read the rest on your own time. The last takeaway is, this is just the first insider version, we don't know exactly what the future will bring. But most likely, backlink functionality, linking functionality is going to expand beyond this initial version, we might have things like collapsible notes, maybe that will be pretty cool. So I can click a button here, and all the takeaways collapse back inside of it, and maybe some basic shapes so we can have circles and lines and other things. The big takeaways for me is that you can use obsidian Canvas to make sense of something you care about. Something that the Canvas does is it helps me be able to say I really know my stuff, I can come back to this canvas map of content and remind myself of all the cool ways that this thing works. And you can apply this to anything that you want to learn that you want to improve that that you want to develop the ideas around, make the decisions on if you want to

###### 27

create something, guess what I'm 80% done. If I want to share this, this video is the proof of that this canvas map is the proof of that. This is this is it. This is the script. This is what I'm using. It's 80% done after I made this, I now have a new thinking tool you're carrying around with your thinking toolbox. Guess what Canvas is a new thinking tool. The advantages of using Canvas over a regular mind mapping software is that it integrates and links with the rest of your knowledge ecosystem, your personal idea verse, the way that you make sense of the world and create value out of the things that you encounter. Not only that, but a year from now, maybe I don't use Canvas, I forget everything about it. I jump into this note. And I'm immediately reminding future me how it all works. And last, it sure was fun. This is fun. It's just fun to think this way. Oh, a little extra that I didn't show you is if you go over here to the file explorer, take any note, drag and drop, and boom, it's there. I saved the best

###### 28

for last. That's one that you should probably use a lot. If you use the file explorer, I typically have it closed. So even though it looks really cool. I typically don't do that. Guess what else is awesome. You can drag and drop from within. So if I click on this once, then I can drag and drop a link. And boom. What did I just do? Here's idea emergence that I just pulled out from here. That's amazing. And then can say, you know, it points to this over here. So there's so much that you can do with obsidian canvas. I really hope this got you excited on to the conclusion. Having a clear and organized map of your thoughts can greatly improve your ability to think make decisions and generate insights. You can do this on paper. I love using paper but you can't easily move your ideas around. You can't move that bubble. You can't link it to the rest of your knowledge ecosystem. But you can using a tool like obsidian this helps future you quickly remember and understand obsidians new canvas view allows you to map out your ideas at close to the

###### 29

speed of thought the big takeaway is this. Those who make a better map, make a better mark. What map will you be making? Hey, if you want to learn the basics of obsidian and take your thinking game to the next level, check out obsidian flight school, a one of a kind immersive training experience with over 100 exclusive videos and trainings to get you using obsidian as close to the speed of your thoughts as humanly possible. But until next time, stay connected
